Alright, let's kick off P.I.M.C.O. With P for pictures.
Fix my hair here.
Please take every opportunity you can to replace
too many words with pictures or images.
Okay, there's a saying that a picture is worth
a thousand words and I certainly believe it.
And this is why Pinterest and Snapchat and Instagram
are more popular than the Economist or writing
letters or reading boring newspapers online
with no images.
So, people don't read as much as they used to.
You know, if you get a really long email,
you know what I mean, you're probably not going to read it.
If somebody posts a really long text entry in Facebook,
most people won't read it.
And media consumption attention spans have changed a lot.
And we've got to adapt to this because on slides
we have to have more pictures than words, right.
It's just a new concept.
People don't want to read as much as they used to.
I mean, when was the last time you read a 5000
word editorial, right?
It's tough to finish these things anymore
because there's so many distractions, right.
And they're visual distractions usually, right.
So, we're gonna use images and pictures whenever
we can instead of words on our slides.
And if we use words, we're going to try to use
fewer words if we can unless it's an
incredibly inspiring quote.
And just pretend that in general that every word
that you put on a slide that is not a pertinent
quote costs you $100.
Now, we understand why pictural websites rock
like Instagram or Snapchat and Pinterest
versus boring text websites or boring slides.
I think you guys get the idea.
Okay, and it's not that often you get to be incredibly
creative in business and putting images on a slide
is actually a lot of fun.
And beautiful images, you know, make your presentation
a visual masterpiece.
And so, again, whenever you can, please replace
text with images and just think how Facebook had
to buy Instagram or Snapchat has been incredibly
successful or why Pinterest has been very successful.
And so, when we were younger, we were all encouraged
to be very creative at school and artistic.
And I actually remember, it's a bit off topic here,
sorry, but I remember as a kid laughing so
hard until it hurt.
And then when we finish school and we join a corporation
we don't create and we don't laugh like we used to anymore.
Why is that the case?
Well, I say why not?
Presenting hasn't really evolved like technology
and (inaudible) communications have evolved.
And just visualize whenever you can.
For example, I teach a course that covers
finance and accounting and it can be a very dry
and boring topic.
But I try to make it more interesting with
a visualization of a road map.
And it's kind of like when Nike advertises,
they don't use all text, they use visuals
and a few words like just do it.
And you've all seen those commercials.
And just check out how much better Nike ads
or commercials have gotten compared to their older ones.
And here's some new cool ones here.
And then some old ones, you can see the difference.
See how there's too much text on the older ones?
Pictures work incredibly well.
And Nike adapted and they are incredibly
successful because they adapted.
They changed with the times.
And they were thought leaders, too.
And we're gonna adapt as well and we're gonna
be thought leaders.
We're gonna use visuals as often as we can
to replace too many words on a slide.
And a picture alone is worth a thousand words.
Most other text is not inspiring.
Quotes are fine because they inspire us.
Visuals are crucial because nobody can really
concentrate for more than 10 or 15 minutes anymore.
Short video clips are great as well.
They're great visuals to mix it all up.
And I presented recently to a business school,
I think the MBA program was (inaudible).
And I wanted to explain Silicon Valley to them
and how it's changing and how people don't
want to work in Palo Alto anymore because
it's shallow Alto, just kidding.
People actually want to work in San Francisco.
It's a bigger city, it's, I don't know,
if you're young and you're single,
you kind of want to live in a big city
and not the suburbs, right, where I live now
which is a little bit more boring than a big city.
So, what I did, was I showed these slides,
and then I also showed a video on how the
San Francisco skyline is changing as salesforce.com
built the tallest building in the history of the city.
So, just show these types of visuals and break up
your presentation with video clips or people
will focus on their smart phones and not on you.
And once you lose an audience, it's almost
impossible to win them back.
And so, when you use images in presentations,
of course, keep the audience characteristics in mind
and show images that everyone recognizes
or identifies with, right.
And in articles that I wrote online in my ink.com
column or on LinkedIn, often the ones that do
the best, meaning the ones that get the most views
or likes, whatever, have images of characters
that we all recognize.
And I'll go in to much more detail on image
manipulation in the next scene, but here are a
few resources for you to access online images
for your presentations.
So, for photos, you can use, just see the URLs here,
the web addresses, imagechef.com or dreamstime.com
or istockphotos.com, freeiconspng.com.
You can also get music, right, at premiumbeat.com.
A lot of music I put actually into my trailers
I'll get from premiumbeat.com.
And for videos you can go to a website to
get stock footage called videoblocks.com.
That's what the professional journalists use,
they go to videoblocks.com.
A guy from Forbes told me about that recently.
It's a good resource, use it please.
And simplistic images that reveal emotion work
really, really well.
And with Nike you think I can do it, etc.
But let's take a look at Coca-Cola.
There's a reason that that brand is so successful
because that brand is all about simplicity
and emotion, right.
And Coca-Cola actually created the concept of
Santa Claus dressed in white and red.
If your kids are around, I should have said in
hindsight, mute that please.
But there's a reason why Pepsi doesn't use
Santa Claus very often in commercials, but Coca-Cola does.
Again, they created just the concept of what Santa wears.
Right, Santa is real.
Okay, so, if these brilliant marketers on Madison Avenue
and all over the world went over huge groups of
people with simplistic messaging that elicits
an emotion then that's exactly what
we're gonna do, okay.
And when you see advertisements or billboards,
commercials from now on, when you're on the highway,
just look at the best ones and just check out
how simplistic they are because they draw on
an emotion, you know, from the viewer.
And then what happens is you see that they incorporate
that into the billboard picture.
And I want you to do the same thing,
please do the same thing with your slides.
And you can actually also de-emphasize an image
by blurring it out a little bit kinda like I do here.
And focus on words via software.
And I'll cover how to do that later in the course.
Image simplicity works, right.
I mean check out Google, they're website here
versus the cluttered version of Yahoo's website.
I mean how many people use Yahoo to search anymore?
And subconscious imagery also works really, really well.
Take a lot of time on this and really enjoy the process.
It's a lot of fun.
And here's an example.
Look at this logo of FedEx.
The world on time.
That's their moniker or whatever, their catchphrase.
But look at the logo of FedEx.
Do you see the arrow?
Look closer.
See the forward arrow, right.
This is a very forward thinking company.
And I actually kind of use this in my logo as well
on my website.
Except I wanted to kind of elicit or subconsciously
sew a message of how the sky is not the limit
and there's an arrow pointing up in my logo.
Humor and self deprecation in images works
really well, as well.
And we're going to cover this in more detail
in act six when we discuss delivery.
And there's a guy named Marc with a C that used this
in a presentation that I thought was pretty funny.
And it also works for Bryan with a Y as well
per this image here.
And the bottom line is that I want you
to please try to replace as many words as you can
in your presentations with images.
A presentation that is delivered with passion
and with images is certainly a winning combination.
Plus it's so much more fun to make presentations
with images, as well.